>> Melkey: Okay, good stuff, so
now we're able to create workouts, and
we're able to have the correct tooling
to validate that something's inserted,
we can look at any error messages,
and we can debug them as we see.
So the next part we're gonna do is do
the rest of the handlers, wo we wanna get
the work ID, update the work ID, and
eventually delete them as well, okay?
So we're gonna work back
into the workout store, so
this file here, the one that has
our interface and our struck.
And the first thing we're going to do,
and as always,
if you have an interface
in your application code,
what I would always recommend is add
the function definition here first.
You can see here we have our Create and
GetWorkout,
let's add a new one for
UpdateWorkout, like so.
UpdateWorkout is gonna take
an argument of a pointer to a Workout,
and it's going to return an error.
So that's simply the function definition
for our workout store interface, okay?
And I think an appropriate part for us to
pick up where we left off is finishing up
the GetWorkoutByID, cuz right now it's
just simply a scaffold of the function.
So we're gonna start right here.
Now, for this one,
we're gonna follow the same pattern, so
let's go ahead and
create our own query, like so, okay?
We're gonna SELECT id, title,
description, duration_minute, and
the calories_burned from
our workout table, okay?
So FROM workouts, and
we wanna make sure WHERE id equals
the one value we're gonna pass in, right?
If we're gonna have a bunch of workouts in
the table, we want to retrieve the one by
its identifiable ID,
which in our case is simply just ID, okay?
Once you have that query ready, we can
then declare the error here as pg.db,
and here,
we're actually gonna do query row.
So this executes a query that's expected
to return at most one row, okay?
So different functionalities,
we have query row,
we have query execute a bunch of different
things that we can use from the driver and
the native SQL package and go.
So it depends on what your use case is,
right?
But here,
we're gonna pass in the query and
then the one argument our query expects,
which is id, all right?
And then here, we're gonna scan all
those fields that we're selecting into
its appropriate fields, quick reminder,
these have to be addresses, right?
These have to be pointers that we're gonna
scan this into the pointer of our workout.
So what we can do here is reference
the address of our workout,
we can put in the order they come in,
so it's ID,
then it's workout.Title,
Description, description,
DurationMinutes,
>> Melkey: And
the last one is calories burned, like so.
So all you have to do is make sure you
match the appropriate fields from our
workout struct to the fields we're
selecting from the query above.
Now, we have to appropriately
check our error, so
we're gonna check two fields here, okay?
So the column one is,
if our error does not equal to nil,
we're gonna return nil and
the error, we've seen this before.
However, there is a chance that someone
may be querying a workout that just
doesn't exist.
Which that's not an error that is simply
a behavior of what may happen with
a relational database, right?
The Postgres is gonna error out, if you
try to [INAUDIBLE] something that doesn't
exist, it's going to return,
this thing doesn't exist.
So we have to account for that, and SQL,
the native package in go gives
us that tool to help do that.
So we can do if error and we can check
does it equal to sql error, NoRows, okay?
So this is returned by Row scan when DB
query row doesn't return a row, all right?
So in this case, what we're going to
do is just simply return nil and nil.
>> Speaker 2: This data
structure just simply, or
an interface that just returns nothing.
>> Melkey: Which one of this?
>> Speaker 2: The sql.ErrNoRows?
>> Melkey: Yep, if you go into it,
it's actually a variable that's
created from an errors.New.
So the native errors package, it just
creates this variable that we can use.
>> Melkey: So like you can literally
replace this with errors.New and
return that if you want, but
it's gonna satisfy the error constraint,
that's why we can put it as an error.
>> Speaker 3: It always end up
returning early in this case though,
if you have error not equal to nil
before that, or do I misunderstand?
>> Melkey: Let's see, if error is not
equal to nil, return nil error otherwise
it will always return, yeah, you're
right actually, these should be swapped.
Yeah, so first we check if it's empty or
if it matches an ErrNoRows,
then it's gonna nil, and
then we check if there's an error.
Good, catch, cool, so
at this point, right here,
we're able to retrieve the entire workout,
but
we still have to retrieve all the entries.
Remember, like a one
too many relationship.
So if we only really cared about those
high level items on our workout,
we can consider this done,
but we need to go ahead and
query the individual entries
that belong to this workout.
So to do this, I'm gonna quickly make
a comment, let's get the entries.
Okay, and to get the entries,
it's gonna be a pretty interesting
approach here, but
it always starts with our entryQuery.
>> Melkey: Okay, here we're
gonna select all the fields that
we care from our our entries,
so id exercise_name,
sets, reps, duration_seconds,
weight, notes and
then the last field is order_index
like so, FROM workout_entries.
The entries table where
the workout_id equals
to the [INAUDIBLE] we're going to pass in.
Okay, I'm gonna ORDER BY
the order index so
we get adhere to the order they
are represented in our database.
Now since this is a one-to-many
relationship, this query can respond
with multiple different results
from the workout entries table.
So we have to handle this in a bit
different way than the query row above, so
how do we do this?
We need to clear rows and error as pg.db,
or we simply just write Query,
and here we're gonna pass
in our entryQuery and
the one argument this query expects,
which is just id, okay?
We're gonna check the error, so
if error does not equal to nil,
I'm gonna return nil and the error.
>> Melkey: Otherwise, before we move on,
we want to defer rows.close, okay?
So we make sure that we close any
lingering connections to the database and
any lingering return results
from this query here.
Again, gonna prepend it with our
defer function keyword, okay?
So now, we have these rows, we're
gonna iterate through each single one,
every result could be one,
could be a ton, right?
We don't know, but we really don't care.
So what we can do is for rows.Next, right?
So it's gonna iterate through
the next result of our rows.
Here, we're gonna create within
the function of this for loop,
we're gonna do var entry is gonna
be of type WorkoutEntry like so.
And here we're gonna do err
is going to be rows.Scan.
We can potentially make this a little
bit easier to read instead of making
it one giant line.
I can stack them here, it just because the
screen has to be a little bit zoomed in.
So here we can do entry.ID,
I'm gonna scan all this into
the appropriate fields.
We can do entry.ExerciseName, entry.Sets
>> Melkey: entry.DurationSeconds.
>> Melkey: Wait, notes and
then entry.OrderIndex.
>> Melkey: Okay, so your scan should
have ID, exercise name, sets,
reps, duration seconds,
wait notes and the order index.
So, individual going through
every return result and
a passing those results into its
individual entry workout entry type.
Here we're gonna check if
there is any error, so
if error does not equal to nil,
we can simply return nil and the error.
And in the last part,
we can do workout.Entries and
we can use the fact that entries
is a slice to append to it.
So we can do workout.Entries equal append,
to pass in the existing slice,
which is the workout dot entries, and then
we can pass in the newest entry, like so.
So that's gonna actually be the completion
of the get workout by ID function